---
title: "Aurora"
date: "2013-11-14"
layout: post
image: /assets/images/black.jpg
tags: 
    - poem
---

**Myth**

Aurora is a woman. Beautiful, young and divine. Every morning, she opens the gates of heaven with her rosy fingers for the Sun to begin his daily journey. Her heart is filled with constant passion, causing her to fall in love over and over. This desire is said to have been the result of a curse, placed upon her by Venus(The Mighty Aphrodite), when she discovered her affair with Mars.

And so it was that time and again, Aurora fell in love with mortal men. This was a sad fate for a goddess, for mortal men do not live forever as goddesses do. But of all the tales of heartbreak, there was no sadder story than the tale of Tithonus, the prince of Troy. Blinded by love, she stole him away and prevailed on Jupiter to grant him immortality, having forgotten to have youth joined in the gift. After some time she began to discern, to her great mortification, that he was growing old. She left his society,  but he still had the range of her palace, lived on ambrosial food, and was clad in celestial raiment. At length, he lost the power of using his limbs and then she shut him up in his chamber, whence his feeble voice might at times be heard. She could bear this no longer and hence turned this shadow of a man into a grasshopper. They had a son called Memnon who died during the Trojan War. Her tears for him are still seen as dew on the morning grass.

The Greeks call her Eos and they recite of her affair with Orion, the mighty hunter. She took him to Delos where he died. Some say he died by Artemis’ bow while others say it was the giant scorpion that killed him. The celestial chase can be still seen as both the giant and scorpion were placed amongst the stars, one rising as the other sets.

The following narrative is not a myth about the tryst between gods and humans. ‘Tis about mortal love. Without much ado I quote Tennyson and begin this tale :

I hold it true, whate'er befall;

I feel it, when I sorrow most;

'Tis better to have loved and lost

Than never to have loved at all.

**Reality**

_On ‘em moonlit nights-dark still, I lie with open eyes_

_broken by desolation and loneliness only Sin to confide_

_then thy steed shake’th, in thy light darkness dies_

_call it a plea, even lust... O Aurora! Come lie by my side._

 

I see you. I see you from the moment I close my eyes, to the moment I open them. At the shops, on the streets, in the sky...everywhere.  I  reach out but my hands gather only dust, I want to speak out but my lips be trussed. You’ve burned every photograph but you can’t sear off your image etched to my soul. I know you blame me for Him, I know its not your fault. Why don’t you understand me? Why do you leave me crying every night with that plaintive demeanour? I need you. I beg you. I...I...I want to see you from the moment I open my eyes to the moment they shut forever.  Let you go? I can never let you go, not even if I die...Listen...Don’t go… Wait...

 

_Being human tis’ the burden I bear_

_All’s nothing but delusion and snare_

_yet at the dying embers I can’t help but stare_

_A drunk prayer for a flare._

 

Titon sits at his usual corner of the dingy old bar, hunched over his regular drink. His handsome face is covered with an aging beard and his hair was disheveled.  His hands shake as he picks up his glass. Gulp. He’s wearing his old tweeds, as always. The bums called him ol' Tit but the once who knew him knew he’d been a tit all his life. The charitable often passed him a buck or bought him a drink.

 

She left again. She came and went. wouldn't listen to me. Crazy bitch. I remember how she used to love me, called me "Darlin" and now doesn't even acknowledge my existence. What "go home Pops", I am not your fucking "Pops", Jim. Aw man you are the bartender, you got to listen to me. Fine, I get it you're busy... I'll come by later. Titon gets up on his rickety legs, catches his breath leanin' on his chair, then heads out. He doesn’t care for the cold breeze, thanks to the alcohol in his body. He walks for a few minutes, then sits down on the pavement to catch his breath again and starts crying. Now not many people would care for an old bum, one as useless as ol' Tit, not people of his own family, but Fiona was possessed by a different altruistic beast altogether. C'mon Pops, stop cryin' Get'p. I'll take ye 'ome. "She left again", said Titon between sobs. Ok, tell me ol 'bout it when we get 'ome, I'll fix ya somethin' to eat.

 

_Your show, your lights, your passion shines_

_Your face, thy body, the maker’s pristine design_

_glittering stars, radiant curls, thy arc dressed up to the nines_

_Your lips only I long to touch, insipid be the rarest wines_

 

She used to be a showgirl, ya know. No, not that famous, she had a few hits back then. They guys used to flock to her like frickin’ bees to honey. Couldn’t sleep, couldn’t eat, couldn’t breathe since I saw her standin’ there, smiling. Man! She was a looker. Had the best smile, you know. I love everything 'bout her. Her brown angelic eyes, golden curls and a cute little patrician nose. He rosy fingers, the way she'd curl her hair with ‘em. The way she’d bite her lips. Her lips! Whenever I saw her show Clapton keeps ringin’ in my head “you look wonderful tonight”. Goddam she did, every single show.

_The Brightness of her cheek would shame those stars as daylight doth a lamp; her eyes in heaven would through the airy region stream so bright that birds would sing, and think it were not night_.

She was a princess, no, a goddess I tell ya. My goddess. She used love mean 'n I worshipped her. Still do. Here I am raving about her and she won’t even see me now. Why'd she leave? Why's she doing this to me. It was not my fault that he died. He wanted to fight their war. I tried to stop him. Fine I'll take the pills. I really tried... Where you goin' Fi, stay for supper, at least. You'd leave me too? Alright, but you'll be back right. Right? Ok. Here I took the goddamn pill.

_Alas, thy humane hidden, only divine be fronted_

_heavenly my status be, by your beauty  it’d be stunted_

_Thy words spoken in love nonetheless left me affronted_

_not by His sting, but by your bow, hunter left hunted_

He lay down and the pill kicked in. He wakes up to a ringing. Someone get the goddamn phone! Fi! Fine. Hello? What? Fi! Get up. She is in trouble, she need me. I need you to take me there. Get up! Fi? Oh! you're awake. Means a lot, kid. She, she's runin’away with this Orion guy. Should've seen it coming. She is supposed to be in the phone booth. Go get her, I'll wait. Fine I'll take the pill. You just get her. Thanks a million.

She has the best smile you know. Hey Fi? you listenin? You've met her right? No?  She's coming over tonight, just you wait till you meet her. She is absolutely wonderful, you'd love her. This is the first time since you know... he died, that she's coming over. She still loves me. I'm so happy. Wait till you meet her. Just you wait...

_Thy colorful lights may not hide the storm within_

_A symbol of hope? Ha! I see darkness therein_

_If power be vested in me thy fate be Boleyn_

_go on leave me, do thy sin min, by Min_

I used to think it was me that made her sad. But it was the other way around. She was the one always complaining,. Complaining ‘bout the house, the food, everything. All that showbiz got to her head I tell ya. All those bums flocking to her like flies. Like flies to garbage. That bitch. I don't care. Let her go. Who does she think she is? Huh.  The stage loosened her up way too much. Never was much of an actor in her, must’ve slept with the producer. I always knew she was a low lying prostitute. Thinks she's more beautiful than Aphrodite. Ha! With her crooked teeth and that phony nose.  I know that sunfabitch, she's going away with. He'd beat the shit out of her, that drunk bastard. Would serve her right. She'll come crying back, just you wait, and I won't take her. I wouldn't. You know what they used to do to these unfaithful sluts backin the old days? Society has softened a lot. Goddam feminists and women rights. No offence, Fi.  You're here with me Fi, I know you'll never leave me. Would you?

_Goodbye goddess, at your door I stand_

_let me be now, live your divinity chronic and bland_

_Leaving your rosy fingers, Titon’s be my fate grand_

_My soul  yet your captive, only body be unmanned_

Dead. Yeah. Las' one stopped the heart. What could I do Jim. I didn' kill 'im. I know he was your father. Sorry fer yer loss... Good fer him, I guess. Suffered a lot, yer ol' man. He did love her, had me runnin’ after ‘er too. Crazy ol’ chum. Have you ever met her? She was yer mum? Hmm. Ghost, spirit, gal who knows eh? He used to call ‘er his goddess. Rosy fingers, blonde hair the whole deal. Said something about losing a son at war, say you have a brother? Hmm, he didn’t mention a name. He did have the wildest imagination, for all I know. Used to scribble in ‘is lil black notebook. Er poems, love letters, load of gibberish too. Weird, I never thought he could write. Ya I'll arrange a proper send off. Comin' right? Don’t Fi, me! Can’t do ye ol' man this last bit?  Ahh yes, he left a box, “for her”. Haven’t open it. Don’t want to. I’ll give it to ye when ya get ‘ere. Maybe he'll meet 'er there? Don't ya think?

**Footnotes:**

1. **Sin is the moon god in Mesopotamian mythology while Min is… google him up.**
2. **Ann Boleyn was the second wife of Henry VIII and mother of Elizabeth I; was executed on a charge of    adultery (1507-1536).**
